Mount Aeptemi

Basic Theme:  The tallest mountain on Kailie.  Think Everest.  Think K2.  Do not think
Kilimanjaor; it is way too easy to climb.  Well, maybe not K2.  It isn't popular enough.  I plan for it
to have a few quests--some small ones, and then the "Big Quest", making it to the top of the
mountain.  Additionally, I plan to have gurus on top that will do something like give out a unique
spell, or a unique style, etc.  I'd ideally like there to be something for basically any of the standard
classes.

The area includes a 'base camp' where players will start their ascent.  It is a small town outside of
Keryth named Aeptum.  Because I plan to make just existing on the side of the mountain deadly,
I'm going to include a lot of 'hints' in Aeptum as to how deadly and dangerous this climb will be--
and on how to survive.  Stupid players will go running up the mountain.  Smart players will stick
round in Aeptum and discover the following:

	A grizzled old muezzin that will tell the story of his successful ascent up Aeptemi,
		including some information on the problems he encountered and how he got
		around them.
	A hospital with a patient for each of the pitfalls, willing to share his story.
	Merchants (of the barkeep lib type) that sell specialized Aeptemi equipment, some of
		which will hopefully be useful off of the mountain.  A detailed list is included at 
		the end of the design file.  These npc's will also describe how the equipment
		should be used.
	Other general interesting stuff will be included as well.  A few ideas:
		a woman who gives you a quest, asking you to bring back news of her husband
			(find his remains hidden on the mountain)
		a wealthy man who will pay you to take him safely to the top of the mountain
			and/or part way up
		A 'rescue' team that will hire your services to go rescue people from the mountain
			system.  Upon receiving the quest, one of a number of rooms will be
			chosen and the player will be pointed in the appropriate direction. 			However, there is a time limit--the victim is constantly loosing hit points.
		A jealous sprite mage that sends you to kill his enemy before he reaches the top
			of the mountain.

In my mind, some of these quests could be completed more than once.  For example, since the
player rescues someone different each time, they should still be able to get the quest.  However,
rather than handing out development points (after the first time), I think a monetary
compensation would be more appropriate.

Everything a player needs to know how to survive, and all the necessary items, will be included here.

The next stage is a path heading up the mountain.  If anyone plans to attach basic areas to the
mountain, this would be a good place.  The path runs into snowfields.  Before actually stepping
on to the snowfields, there is a warning sign AND a newbiep() prevention.

The snowfields are the 'introduction to Mount Aeptemi' area.  All of the automatic things happen,
like the weather and cold damage, but with reduced consequences.  This is the "turn back now if
you aren't ready" warning area.  I plan to have some npc's appropriate for levesl 15-20.  Maybe
some ice trolls or something.  Some adventurers.  Stuff like that.  After the ice fields, you find an
area where you can step up on to the glacier.

Again, a warning sign.  The glacier is planned to be virtual, with a number of random events that
cause problems.  The first one is 'slipping'.    Slipping only occurs when the player is not properly
equipped (eg, crampons) or when the equipment is severly damaged.  It can be 'minor' or
'catastrophic', with the player just falling down, or possibly slipping into other rooms or even off of
the glacier.

The second danger is crevasses, which are spanned by narrow snow bridges of dubious quality. 
Though I plan for the glacier to be random, I will include at least one permanent crevass to
ensure that players will always encounter one.  The snow bridges are not necessarily stable--
randomly, some will collapse based on weight.  Smart players will purchase a specially designed
stick for 'testing' these snow bridges.

Falling off of the glacier/into a crevass will take you to a crevass room.  I am currently undecided
as to whether it is actually worth it to make a matching virtual crevass system.  Regardless, a
player can walk out of here back to Aeptum.  However, the fall will cause severe damage and
cause them to drop all of their items that are no attached (I'm just basing this on what is being
worn by the player).  Their items may or may not land in the same room as they do; all of their
items will be in rooms that are closely connected to the one they fell in.  To help players out a
little, I plan to sell a wearable pack.  I'm also considering 'tethers' that can be tied around a
weapon and attached to a belt.  This would be useful for things like weapons.

Eventually, the player will make it on to the ice falls.  Even greater chance of slipping, and here
one can slide off of the mountain proper and into an avalanche field.  I plan to also make this a
large virtual space, with the unworn equipment falling to nearby areas.  The avalanche field leads
back to Aeptum, as well.  There is also a random chance of avalanche.  Players are warned of
the impending doom by a loud rumbling, to give them a few moments to prepare themselves.  If
they are 'sturdy' enough (using crampons, maybe an ice axe, to hold themselves to the cliff) they
may stay in place.  I plan to make it possible for a highly prepared player to never fall prey to any
of the disasters, so long as they respond quickly enough.  Avalanche also makes you loose
equipment, but may strip you of worn items, and will scatter them across the entire avalanche
field.  A quick note:  The ice fields are an especially dangerous area, as exits are allowed that will
send players flying off the mountain.  The player must examine the room to determine which exits
are actually safe.  No obvious exits will be displayed.

After the ice fields is the monastery with the gurus.  None of them will talk to you until you make it 
to the 'top of the mountain' room and complete the quest.  Not far past the gurus is the actual 
top, and all the fame and glory with having climbed Aeptemi.

Additional constant problems will afflict the players.  Cold is one of them.  The cold damage a 
player recieves will gradually increase while heading up the mountain.  It can be avoided by 
wearing enough warm stuff.

I plan for the cold to also damage equipment.  Aeptum will sell a pack to protect equipment.

Nighttime will also increase the cold damage issues.  I plan to make it fairly deadly to stay outside 
the entire night.  Snow caves will be scattered around the mountain as temporary shelter; and 
Aeptum will sell a tent item that players can set up on the mountain for shelter.  Aeptum will also 
sell magical drinks/food that will infuse the body with heat.

Aeptemi gets its own domain for weather purposes.  I want fierce storms to occur randomly, with 
short warnings (as with the avalanche).  High winds will make it easier to slip.  Falling snow 
decreases visibility (making it harder to determine if snow bridges are safe) and can mask the 
'obvious exits', allowing players to walk off of the mountain.  Storms can decrease the 
temperature, increasing cold damage.  They also make it more difficult to move around, requiring 
more stamina.  Some conditions increase the likelihood of avalanches.  The warnings of an 
incoming storm will be easy to spot.

I'm also considering having "thin air" the higher you get.  Essentially, if you get up high enough 
on the mountain, you start loosing stamina every heart beat, and then more every time you move.  

As promised, a list of special equipment and their purposes:

1.  Climbing belt.  When used with tethers, allows a player to secure items (protects from item 
loss due to avalanche/crevass/falling off mountain).  When used with a rope, allows players to 
secure themselves to each other.  This is a few planned purposes:  Players must be in the same 
room or their rooms must connect (no more than one room apart).  Players can also 'haul' the 
other player back into their room.  This means:  When a player falls off the mountain in some 
manner, they will actually be 'hanging' from the mountainside.  The other player can pull them 
up, if they have enough strength.  Alternatively, the falling player can detach themselves from the 
rope and fall/get disconnected.
2.  Tethers.  Used with climbing belt as above.
3.  Rope.  Used with climbing belt as above.  Additionally, can be used by a player to attach it to 
a secure ice anchor allowing a player to stay in the same room (in case of avalanche).
4.  Backpack.  Protects EQ from cold damage.  Wearable, to prevent EQ loss.
5.  Ice anchor.  As mentioned above.
6.  Tent.  Allows player to set up a temporary shelter from the cold.
7.  Specialized food and drink.
8.  Ice axe.  Designed for slamming into ice.
  