How To Make Amelia Love You During QC
-------------------------------------

Step One:  Everything updates.

Step Two:  Everything works.
	Walk through the area.  Use a test char.  Make sure
	your merchant actually sells and buys stuff.  Make sure
	your npcs are wearing their clothes and wielding their
	weapons.  Look at things.  

Step Three:  Readable Code.
	If your approval team has to work hard to just be able to
	read your code and find your descriptions, they will
	tell you to redo it.  That's it.  You don't pass go or
	collect any notes on the other stuff, and you have to
	wait until they have time--again.

Step Four:  Grammar and Spelling.
	Copy your descriptions into spellcheck if you have problems
	with this.  Have a friend read it over.  Your approval staff
	should not be giving you fifty pages of notes on this.

Step Five:  Balance.
	A tiny piece of paper doesn't weigh 50 kg.  A harmless rat
	can't kill a level 10 player.  Use a test char.  Make it
	level 10.  Try to kill the rat.  If you fail, you need to 
	make changes.

Step Six:  Thorough Item and Adjective lists.
	If the long description in a room talks about a box of
	nifty flowers, I can:
	"look at box" "look at flowers" "look at flower" "look at 
	box of flowers" "look at box of nifty flowers" "look at 
	nifty flower" "look at nifty flowers"
	We used to have to do this the hard way (by typing all
	that out) so don't complain.  You have SetItemAdjectives().

Step Seven:  Descriptions.
	The approval staff shouldn't fall asleep reading your
	descriptions.  Neither should the players.  Rooms should
	include information about what exits and enters are
	around.  NPCs should include information about how
	difficult they are to kill, what their skills, morality,
	religion, town, race, etc. are.  OBJs should include
	information about their size, composition (iron, wood,
	etc.), and use are.

	To keep us awake, try to put something interesting to
	look at in each room.  Make your NPCs say nifty things.
	One easy way to do this is to put at least one unique
	thing in each room--a cool mural on the wall in the
	rich merchant's home, for example.  Make funny items,
	like the famous rat-on-a-stick.

Step Eight:  Listen and Smell.
	All rooms should have a default listen and smell.
	All things that are smelly, like piles of rotting
	food, should be smell-able.  All things that are noisy,
	like waterfalls, should be listen-able.  

Step Nine:  Navigation.
	The long description should describe all the exits and
	enters.  They should also give a general idea of where
	those exits and enters go--into a building, through a
	forest, along a road.  The area should not be difficult
	for me to map out.  Also, if I can walk east into a 
	room, I should be able to walk west back out of it, and
	into the room I originally came from.

Step Ten:  Theme.
	The area should fit our theme.  Magic.  Swords.  No guns.
	No computers.  Realism.

Step Eleven:  Fully Coded.
	There are a lot of properties to set in an NPC or an OBJ.
	Properties like morality and religion often get overlooked,
	but some spells are based off of them.  Other things to
	consider:
		An npc that is proficient in slash attack should
			also be proficient in slash defense.
		A mage should use spells in combat.
		A rat should use teeth and claws to attack.
		Merchants (and sentient people in general) are
			probably carrying some money.
		A swordmaster is probably carrying, and using,
			a sword.

Step Twelve:  Fun.
	Believe it or not, people play Haven because it is fun.
	Make an area that you would enjoy playing, and other
	players will probably enjoy it, too.
	It's also worth considering what players "get" for using
	your area.  Are there good NPCs to train with?  Will
	they get lots of treasure for purchasing things?  Or will
	they get some sort of spiffy, useful item?  Or are things
	fun to look at and role-play with?

Step Thirteen:  Politeness.
	Don't tell the approval staff to fuck off when you get a 
	list of stuff to fix.  Don't act like it is stupid or
	beneath you.  If you really feel this way, then coding
	for Haven is not for you.  Go back to being a player.